Hello, my name is Ben Callahan.
I am the founder of Sparkbox.
I have been helping organizations create
a more systematic design program for
over a decade alongside the awesome
team I have at Sparkbox.
And these days, almost every engagement
that we do at Sparkbox involves a design
system in some capacity.
And I've spent the last five years
in particular doing a deep dive on
research about how designs
items are maturing.
I have organized some industry wide
surveys for the last five years.
I've conducted hundreds
of formal interviews, and
I've had thousands of conversations
with folks like yourselves.
Today, we are not going to
write a single line of code.
[LAUGH] We're not gonna do any design.
We're not gonna do any wireframing.
You will not be doing anything in Git.
Honestly, if you wanna learn how to code
a component, or how to use a token in
Figma or something, you can find a
thousand tutorials for that stuff online.
Design system work is a little bit
different than anything else that we do.
And in the end, what we're doing is
asking everyone to change the way that
they think and the way that they work.
So that makes it uniquely
difficult in my understanding, and
that means there's a lot more to do
than just designing and coding a system.
That also means that the approach
that super smart folks that you
have probably read about, companies
like Salesforce or IBM or Shopify,
these folks are great, right?
They've done amazing work.
But what made their systems work
are probably not going to make your
system work.
And so that's why I believe there
is no one way to do this stuff.
So what I wanna do today is
share with you a way of thinking
about digital design that will help
you build a healthy design system.
I wanna show you how to find your way.
So for those of you who love an agenda,
any type A folks,
[LAUGH] here are the big concepts
that we're gonna cover today.
We're gonna start with just high
level anatomy of a design system.
What the heck is this, right?
And what are the pieces and
parts that make up a system?
Then I'll share with you a bunch of
interesting concepts and models for
how systems mature.
This is just from the research,
from the interviews,
from the surveys over the last five years.
And we'll do an overview
of that maturity model.
There's four stages,
we'll talk through those.
And then I'll share with you
a concept called origin stories,
which really impacts
the way systems mature.
After that,
I'll walk you through a framework for
how to mature your own system.
And we'll kinda do a deep dive into
each of the stages of maturity, and
I'll show you some key concepts that the
healthiest designed system teams are using
to keep their system moving
in a good direction.
Then I'll show you a framework for
how to maintain stability,
because things around your system
are always gonna be changing and shifting.
And finally,
I'm gonna talk with you a little bit
about how the culture of an organization
has a dramatic impact on the way that
you approach a systematic program.
So there's a lot of
material here to cover.
It's all very conceptual and
theoretical, and
that's because there is
no single way to do this.
So what I'm trying to do is empower
you to take these models and
put them into practice
wherever it is that you work.
Before we jump into all of that, I just
wanna give you my contact information.
I love this stuff.
I will literally talk about it with you
all day, if you're willing to hear it.
In fact, you are going to hear it today.
[LAUGH] So that's what we're doing.
But my email is here.
I'm on Twitter.
I'm on Mastodon, most of the social
channels, just Ben Callahan.
And I even made this handy little form for
you if you have feedback
on this presentation.
If you have questions that we don't get to
during the day, or if you have ideas, or
if you have a story, or if you just wanna
say hello, or set some time up to chat,
you can do all of that stuff at this link.
Get to connect with Ben link there.
So take some time to do that, even just
to let me know that you were here, and
we can stay connected after this.
That would be wonderful.
So it would be really helpful to have a
moment where I'll share a little bit of my
context, a challenge that
I'm facing today, and
a success that I've had recently.
And I'm gonna ask each of you who
are willing and able to do so
to share something similar with the group,
just so we can kinda get a sense for
who's here and why you're here.
I'll start.
I studied computer science and
graduated with that degree.
I actually worked as an enterprise
software engineer for
about six years right out of school,
and then I decided that [LAUGH] that
soul-crushing work was not for me,
and I started my own business.
And I've kinda been doing
my own thing ever since.
So that's been about about 20 years
that I've had something going.
Now the types of businesses I've
organized are very different.
I used to make short films.
I ran audio on films.
I had a recording studio for a while.
I'm a musician, I'm a poet, I'm a writer.
And all of those parts of my life,
the sort of love and passion of art,
kinda pulled me away from enterprise
software towards digital design.
I was trying to find a way to use that
passion that I had in the work that I was
also doing.
So I kind of finally found
my place as a frontend
developer where I got to marry
the technical side, cuz I do love to code.
I do love that part of the work.
But I got to marry that
with the interface,
the work of building something
that a user would actually touch.
And so
that's where I really found my home.
One challenge that I am under, or
that I'm facing right now is I'm
actually under contract to write a book.
Actually, a lot of the material that
I'll share with you today is from that.
I don't know if y'all have ever done this,
but writing something so
long is difficult.
It's exhausting in weird
ways I never imagined.
There have been days when I just was done.
[LAUGH] There have also been days where I
couldn't get any words out onto the page.
It's not simple.
It's really hard.
And there were days where I really
didn't think that I would finish it.
The success, though, is the other side
of that, which is that literally Sunday
evening, I submitted the first draft
of this thing, so over 45,000 words.
I somehow managed to get out onto a page,
about all of this.
And so I'm really excited about that.
It's a big stake in the ground for me.
Of course, there's tons of editing and
all of that to do still, but
it feels like momentum.